Now let's pick up where we have left.
The last time so we were uploading a file which was an image and then we are dumping some information
about that file so this was the file itself and then we use this file object which is of type uploaded
file to get the client mind type the original extension and then that's important.
We have used the file store method to immediately store it inside the farmer names folder.
So let's see where this file has actually ended up.
So this is the main directory of our.
Up here we have this storage folder the app folder that public folder and farm names folder so you can
see that this file name is matching the name that we have dumped here.
So what file store does is it's a shortcut for using their storage for seed and it will use the default
the disk that you have configured so in our case it is public disk.
This setting should be inside your dot and file.
So what this is equivalent of is there is this storage for seed you of course have to add an import
to use it
so this storage seed can be used to access a disk using the disk static method
so that way we are seeing to it that we want to operate on the public disk if you want specify a disk
you have access to all the storage methods but then you will work on the default disk but let's do it
like that.
So disk and then the storage has the put file method.
Now here you will also specify a folder.
So let it be the same.
So fond nails
and the second argument is the actual file.
So we will use the uploaded file instance so let's save this changes.
OK.
So we are also dumping that.
Now let's refresh and now what you see is to exactly the same file names.
So basically this is an exact the same operation.
So the file store is just a shortcut to use the storage on the default disk.
So I'm writing it right now here.
Just to be explicit and then it is using that put file method to generate a file name out dogmatically.
So it is being generated by Lavell.
We haven't specified it to be called like you see on the screen.
It will also guess the file extension of that file using the MIME type and store it inside this folder
on the disk specified.
And as we remember the public disk is configured to be inside the storage folder up public.
So basically this will create a new fund nice folder or just put something to the fact Fund notes folder
if it already exists no sometimes you might want to specify the file name yourself.
So let's comment that out.
So the first way to do that would be to also use the uploaded file instance
and use that store as method which accepts options as you see on the screen.
So first one would be also the folder where you want to keep it.
So that would be fun.
Nails but the second one is the actual file name.
So in this case you are giving the file the name that you wish.
So in case that we are uploading blog posts and there will only be one family image we already have
a blog post instance.
So you might do something like this.
So the file name would be the same as the idea of the blog post but it's also useful to give the file
an extension
and what you can do to achieve that is either get client or regional extensions so the file would be
given the extension that was on the file when a user uploaded it.
It's never safe to do that because you should never actually trust your users.
But there is another way you can get an extension which is guess extension
so this is the one way to immediately store and upload that file but this is actually an equivalent
to using storage boot file us where you actually provide the exact same parameters with the exception
that first you specify a folder where you want that file to be kept.
The second parameter is the actual file so you have to pass the file instance and the second sort of
the first parameter would be the file name.
So let's copy what we have here.
And now let's refresh this page.
So we will send the same image again and you can see that those are the files with the names that we
have given to it actually.
We should also add adults to separate the extension but other than that this is the way you can give
the files custom names if you of course need that.
Sometimes it might be more convenient for you to just have the file name configured.
So in case you do not want to store the file name somewhere inside the database because when we will
use those methods with auto generated names let's see that.
OK so those names are outer generated.
So if you do not store this name at this point of uploading inside the database you basically are losing
this.
There is no way you can then figure out what should be the name of the file that you have uploaded.
Of course it is on the disk about well you will have hard time figuring out what was the name of the
file that you might want to show on the blog post page.
But in this case it is much simpler so we don't really have to store this name inside the database because
the file name is actually the blog post I.D..
So then it's very easy to fetch this file.
When you have a blog post and you will know what file name to look for.
Well maybe with the exception of the extension which you also would have to know.
But anyway you can see that those two methods were equivalent.
So file store is equivalent to the storage and the same is with giving the file name so we can either
use file store arse or storage put file us.
So I've said that when you do not specify a disk like that it is using our default disk.
So now let's try another example when we will actually specify a disk first so let's see what disks
we have available.
So other than public we have local.
We want to try as free because this would require us to set up an Amazon account at this point which
isn't really a part of this course but feel free to do that if you have access to one.
So we'll use the local disk as an example.
So we are specifying the line above should use the default disk and stored the file with the given name
and line below when we use the storage for say it should store that file on the disk called local.
So let's refresh again and you can see that those names are exactly the same.
Yet those files are in storage in the same exact place.
So you can see that there is this 85 J pack file inside our storage folder so let's go through them
again.
So this is our main folder storage up public thumbnails.
And there is that there is the 85 JPEG.
But the second time we have stored the file using the disk local which is configured differently.
You can see that it stores directly inside the storage folder.
So let's go back
so here is the storage folder and you can see that apart from the public folder inside the app we also
have the farm names folder.
So this is what happened when we have used the local disk
so it is using the storage path and then the app directory.
So that's a very simple example.
Those two disks basically are using the same driver which is your application directory but they store
them inside the different folders.
So in the next lecture will we'll see how we can figure out what is the actual you URL you should use
to show this file to the client and then how to make those files publicly available because since this
storage folder is actually part of our application and we know that publicly visible files should be
stored inside the public folder you will see how you can achieve that.
So everyone can see this file.